[Music]
two ways to save yourself from drowning
even the most experienced swimmers can
find themselves in a situation where
something has gone wrong and they start
to drown that's why it's crucial to know
what to do and what not to do in the
scenario one day this knowledge might
save your life remember to click the
subscription button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side of life first of all let's
have a look at some statistics about
drowning in fact drowning is one of the
most widespread causes of death
worldwide with regards to the u.s. there
were approximately 3,500 unintentionally
fatal drownings a year from 2005 to 2014
this means that approximately 10 people
lost their lives in the water every day
sadly according to specialists most of
these deaths could be avoided if people
knew what to do in a critical situation
and that would be don't panic
surprisingly when a person is drowning
they need to fight not the water but
their instincts the thing is when
somebody feels that they aren't in
control of the situation they start to
flail as hard as they can by panicking
they make themselves submerge deeper and
deeper as a result they get exhausted
quickly and can't stay afloat long
enough to wait for help the first thing
you should always remember is that the
human body has a natural ability to
float the only necessary condition is
that the lungs are filled with air so as
long as you're taking regular breaths
you won't drown unfortunately you can't
hold your breath forever when you exhale
the air that keeps you buoyant you sink
into the water for a short period of
time that is when you might start to
panic
and as you know panic is what you need
to avoid by all means since it's the
most common cause of drowning
experienced lifeguards can easily draw a
picture of a typical drowner a person
realizes they're in trouble they attend
to attract attention by waving their
arms but this brings them out of the
water according to the laws of physics
they become heavier and start to sink
faster instinctively this person starts
to struggle to get up in the gas upper
air but these hectic movements pull them
underwater so what's rule number one try
to keep your panic at bay and please
don't stop breathing assuming you've
managed to overcome your panic you're on
track to breathe normally now it's time
to conserve energy so that you can wait
for help to arrive you can do this by
assuming one of two positions either
floating on the water or treading water
first of all let's see how to tread
water correctly your body has to stay
upright and your head should be above
the surface you need to move your arms
and legs to keep yourself afloat you can
use your arms and legs together just
your legs or just your arms try to shift
your arms horizontally back and forth if
you start moving them up and down you'll
begin the bob around as a result you'll
waste a lot of precious energy make sure
your palms face the direction of your
arms movements there are several ways to
move your legs when you're treading
water your instincts can make you use a
frog kick aka breast stroke or a flutter
kick used in freestyle if you're still
too anxious you might even start to move
your legs in circles but although all
these techniques will make your body
move upward you'll waste too much energy
the best way to move your legs is to
rotate each leg in a different direction
this motion may take some time to master
but once you do you can stay in the
water vertically for hours remember that
one of the most important things about
treading water is being calm and
breathing slowly this way you won't get
tired and you will improve your energy
efficiency as well you're doing it
correctly if you're bobbing up and down
a little on the waves
the second way to stay on the surface of
the water until somebody comes to rescue
you it's to float on your back this is
the best way to calm yourself and
breathe normally try to position your
body in such a way that it's almost
parallel to the ocean floor your head
should be tilted backward make sure your
ears are submerged admittedly it's not
the most pleasant sensation but if your
ears aren't underwater your neck will
feel a serious strain as a result you
won't be able to float effortlessly also
this head position is very important
since it will make your legs rise to the
surface this way you'll be lying on the
water in addition your mouth will stay
above the surface meaning that you'll be
able to breathe freely keep your chin
lifted so that it points toward the sky
paradoxically this simple movement can
make your body more buoyant make sure
your head is centered as long as it is
your whole body is balanced so don't try
to turn your head to one side or the
other you should pay particular
attention to the position of your arms
you can either bend them at the elbows
and move your palms under your head or
straighten your arms and keep them close
to your body the most important thing is
to remember that your palms have to face
the sky if you want to float for as long
as possible it's vital to push your body
upward to do so
try arching your upper back slightly
this will move your chest and stomach
out of the water by no means should you
bend your body downward if you do so the
middle of your body will start to sink
and you won't be able to float your body
has to form a straight line together
with your legs if you feel your legs
begin to submerge you can make some
small kicks there's no need to do this
all the time just float on your back and
whenever you feel your lower body start
to move downward take your legs to
return to the surface one more important
thing about floating is connected with
your breathing namely how big your
breath should be we've determined that a
person floats as long as they have air
in
it would be logical to suppose that the
bigger lungfuls you take the better you
float however there's a catch when you
exhale a deep breath your body sinks
into the water more deeply this happens
because the difference between the
volume of air inside and outside the
lungs is too great that's why the best
way to stay afloat is to breathe in
medium sized lungfuls of air and don't
hold your breath
this will lead to a buildup of co2 and
this won't help you on the contrary
you'll get out of breath much sooner and
once again if you find yourself pulled
away from the shore or you've fallen out
of a boat don't panic
use your knowledge of floating or
treading water and conserve your energy
while you're waiting for help have you
ever experienced any water related
accidents share your stories in the
comments below
remember to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay safe and happy on the bright side
of life